In this lesson we will learn about the CSA as property named transform the transform property is aptly
named.
It lets us transform and manipulate the appearance of elements in unique ways.
Throughout this lesson we will learn how to transform elements in four primary ways.
Number one we can rotate elements.
Number two we can change the scale or size of elements.
Number three we can skew an element.
So that means taking a rectangle and making it become a parallelogram and number four we can change
the positioning of element.
Let's begin with number 1.
Rotti.
Here we are in the web browser and we are viewing an example page that I've set up.
We can see there are two boxes.
This one is titled.
Example A.
And this one reads.
Example B.
Now in this lesson we are going to use the transform property to manipulate the appearance of this first
box.
The one that reads.
Example.
In our stylesheet.
Here's the rule for the example a box so we can begin adding new declarations here to affect the box
and our first goal will be to rotate the element.
So inertia SS or create a new declaration that begins with transform.
Now we wanted to rotate the box so I will use the rotate function.
And let's see if we want to rotate it 25 degrees.
We save and refresh we can see the boxes rotated the rotate function will rotate the content in a clockwise
fashion.
So if we increase this from 25 degrees to 90 degrees you can see the content has been rotated clockwise
a clean 90 degrees.
Now obviously there are 360 degrees in a full rotation so everything is relative to that figure.
So if we placed a value of 360 within the function it will appear as if nothing is changed.
But really the image has rotated fully and is right back where it would start.
Originally the function can also receive negative values.
So for example if we say 15 degrees it rotates clockwise.
But if we say naked of 15 degrees it will rotate counterclockwise 15 degrees.
I think you get the point.
So that is the rotate function.
In a nutshell.
Moving on let's discuss transforms ability to adjust the scale or size of elements.
So just for the time being if we remove this line of code and refresh we can see our content is back
to normal.
Now let's see we want to adjust the size or scale transform can use the scaled function and the value
that we it does not need a unit of measurement.
So we're not going to enter a number and then P X for pixels.
We're entering a multiplier.
So if I say 1.3.
The content grows by a scale that is 1.3 times larger than the original content.
So for example to double the size of the content we can say scale 2.
Or to cut the content in half in terms of size we could say point five.
Now the scale function is an excellent segue into a very important side note and that is that the amount
of space that an element occupied within the natural flow of the page prior to the transformation is
the exact same amount that it will occupy after the transformation.
So for example if we remove this transform scale line you can see that the example a box reverts back
to its normal natural state.
And because the box has a bottom margin of 30 pixels This is where the example B box sits.
But if we increase the size of the example a box using transform scale to 1.5.
Notice that the example B box does not move down to accommodate the signs.
Change the example.
A box is simply overlapping the example B box as far as the rest of the page is concerned.
The example a box is still only this large.
So when we use the transform property we are quite literally only manipulating that particular element
independently of the rest of the page with that important side note taken care of let's move on from
scale and begin to discuss skew skew allows us to tilt an element.
So you can imagine a rectangle becoming a parallelogram.
So in our code let's remove the scale line so our content is back to its natural state.
And let's attempt to skew the content transform skew x.
So we're going to skew it horizontally and let's say 15 degrees.
If we wanted a more exaggerated effect we could increase it to 25 degrees and if we wanted to skew it
in the other direction we could provide a negative value
so that's skewing an element horizontally.
We used skew X if we wanted to skew it vertically we can say skew Y and if we wanted to skew an element
both horizontally and vertically can simply include a space skew x 15 degrees and that is skew in a
nutshell.
Now we saw how easy it was to include both skew Y and skew X within a single transform declaration.
And this segues nicely into a new topic.
This is the exact syntax we can use to combine the different transform functions that we've learned
about.
So let's remove this line completely for just a moment and let's imagine that we want to both rotate
example and increase its scale.
So in a single transform declaration we can say rotate 20 degrees space scale 1.5.
So this is quite powerful.
You can use your imagination to concoct different recipes which use different combinations of the transform
functions.
So back to the lesson overview we've learned about rotate.
We've covered scale.
We've seen skew in action.
The final topic is using the transform property to control the positioning of content.
The first component of adjusting the positioning of content comes in the form of a property named transform
origin.
Now before we delve into this new property let's first simplify our transform example.
I'm going to remove the Rotti.
So the only effect that's taking place on the example a box is that we've multiplied the scale by 1.5
and you'll notice that it appears as if the content has expanded in all four directions or in other
words it's as if it's used as original center as its frame of reference or pivot point or transform
origin.
So what if instead we wanted the content to use its original top left corner and grow out only in this
direction.
That is where the transform origin property comes into play.
So if we're looking for the top left corner to be our pivot point you can say 00.
Let's review the syntax that we just used these two values represent the horizontal and vertical positioning
of our point of origin or pivot point for the transform in a way you can think of these as the longitude
and latitude for point of origin.
So we used 0 0 to specify the top left corner of the original content.
By default the browser will use 50 percent 50 percent.
So this should look familiar.
That is the exact way that the browser will position the transform.
If we have no code at all for the point of origin.
Now just to make sure that this system is clear.
Let's imagine that we wanted the point of origin or the pivot point to be the top right corner of the
original content.
So we wanted the content to grow in this direction so horizontally we would want to travel the full
distance 100 percent and vertically we wouldn't need to travel at all.
We would just stay at the very top.
Excellent.
So transform origin is the first transform related way of controlling the positioning of content.
Let's move on to the second component.
It's a bit simpler to understand.
So I'm going to remove both of these lines of code so we're starting back from square one.
Let's imagine that we wanted this example a box to sit 20 pixels lower on the page than it does naturally
but we don't want the rest of the page to react accordingly.
So we don't want example B to also be pushed down 20 pixels.
We want to affect this example a box independently from the rest of the page.
We can use the transform property and use a function named translate y.
So I will provide this function with a value of 20 pixels and we can see that our box moved down 20
pixels and the rest of the page did not react.
So even if we increase this value to 50 pixels it will simply overlap the content below it.
The content below it will not adapt and be pushed down as well.
So that was an example of translate why it allows us to move down the y access so vertically if we wanted
to move to the right we can use a function named translate x.
So if I specify 100 pixels can see we've moved to the right 100 pixels.
Now in instances where you want to move both vertically and horizontally we can combine these into a
single function simply named.
Translate will provide the horizontal value first and the vertical value second.
And we have the exact same effect.
Notice that we did include a comma after the first value.
So that is the translate function.
In a nutshell.
Now you may be scratching your head and wondering why would we use transform translate when we can simply
say position relative and then use the top and left properties to create the exact same effect.
That is an excellent question and there's no way for me to answer it without revealing what we're going
to be covering in our next lesson.
It makes sense to use position relative in tandem with top left or bottom right properties for layout
purposes.
Now as we will learn in our next lesson it makes sense to use transform translate when we are trying
to animate or transition content from one position to another in a smooth fashion.
Yes you heard that correctly.
We can use SS to animate our content for the time being.
Just know that the translate function is hardware accelerated which means when it comes time in the
next lesson to animate content from one position to the next the animation will be silky smooth if we
use translate.
Whereas it might be a bit jittery if we tried to animate the top or left property.
Now in the context of this lesson we're getting way ahead of ourselves and I don't want you to get confused
worrying about animations.
I simply wanted you to understand why the translate function is useful.
So to close out this particular lesson Here's a quick review.
We learned that we can use the transform property to manipulate content and we reviewed rotate scale
skew translate and we also learned how to have fine grained control of the transformation using the
transform origin property.
I encourage you to experiment with the properties and functions that we just reviewed because in our
next lesson we are going to get our first look at animating content.
We are going to learn about transitioning smoothly from one value to another.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
I will see you in the next lesson.